hi guys welcome to another tutorial
today I'm going to do a pirate for you
it's going to be like kind of Jack
Sparrow
ESCO supposin it would be exactly the
same but very similar sorry about my
face today I know I'm looking like a hot
mess but I just filmed a tutorial before
this one which was a leopard and I've
taken it all off and it's kind of left a
yellow yellow tinge and I couldn't be
bothered to put all my makeup back on on
top of it so uh apologies for that the
first thing we need to do is make our
pirate look a little bit tired and a
little bit gone so I'm taking a light
brown color on a sponge and just
hollowing out the underside of the
cheekbones and really blending it in and
also taking some underneath the eyes and
just below the lower lip
to create the pirates double I took a
stipple sponge which is a very coarse
sponge with lots of little holes in it
and you need to make sure that the pain
isn't too wet when using one of these
because otherwise the stubble will drip
down the face so you load it up nice and
dry and then just gently press it on the
areas where you want the stubble I took
it all over the lower jaw a little bit
on the top lip and also down the neck
for the bandana I took a bright red
paint on a flat brush and just painted a
line straight across my forehead I did
make sure that the line was at a slight
angle so it goes up at one side and
lower at the other and on the lower side
I painted and not just by drawing a
circle and then straight off of this
added two tails
I then took some more of the red paint
on a sponge and I just filled in the
whole area above the line you want to
make sure the paint is quite solid for
this to make it look like material and
you also want to take it right into the
hairline because the bandana needs to
appear as though it's sitting underneath
the hair so make sure you take it right
up to the edge
to add some dimension I took a dark red
color and just blended this into the
outside corners of the bandana you want
to blend it into the red as much as you
can and then I also took a little bit
over the knot as well
you
I wanted to make sure the bandana looked
like fabric so to add a bit of texture I
took a stencil with a swirly pattern and
just stenciled a darker red over the
whole area you do need to make sure that
the red underneath it is pretty much dry
otherwise when you lift the stencil off
it will peel off some of the brighter
red as well
the next job was to create the Pirates
facial hair and I wanted this to look as
realistic as possible so what I did was
take a very little brush and some brown
paint and I just painted wispy lines all
over the areas where I wanted the
moustache to be now the key to getting
it to look as well as you can is to do
it in layers so I did one layer then I
went back in with another layer of hair
I think I did about three layers with
the brown in total
I use the same technique to paint his
beard as well so you need a little
triangle underneath the lips and then a
small wispy line right along the jaw
because my eyebrows are really thin I
also needed to fill them out a little
bit more and make them more manly so I
just took some brown paint through them
and made them really bushy
you
I wanted to give the areas with the hair
a bit more tone and also try and match
it into my natural hair color so I went
over everything with a black paint as
well but very lightly so it almost
doesn't show
you
I took some black paint over my eyelid
and then either using a dry brush or
your finger whichever is easier you want
to smudge the paint out don't worry if
it doesn't look neat it wants to be
really smudgy and messy also take the
black paint underneath and do the same
thing
you
next I painted a skull and crossbones on
the bandana so start off with a white
circle right in the center and then off
of this you want to add a small
rectangle just underneath and that will
create the skulls jaw then right below
you want to start painting your cross
you
on the very tips of the lines you want
to add two little dots and that will
make it look more like bones
I painted a very thin black line in a
tiny brush wrote on the underside of the
bandana and I also outlined the knot and
added a bit more detail there
you
while the paint's still wet I took the
same dry brushes before and just blended
some of the lines out to make it look
like shadows
using black I also added some fold lines
in the bandana as well to make it look
more realistic now once I painted these
are I thought they looks a little bit
too dark so I took the red sponge and I
just dabbed over the top of them to mute
them down a bit
you
next I painted a tiny little face on the
skull now that the white paints dry and
I also went in and added a bit of
shading around him to make him stand out
a bit more
you
I really wanted the black that outlined
the bandana to look more like a shadow
so I took a brush with just water on it
and gently smudged it in a bit
you
and then the very last thing I did as a
final touch was to add a little bit of
black eyeliner right along the waterline
and then we have our Jack Sparrow
inspired pirate I hope you liked it
don't forget to make sure that the hair
is really mostly because pirates did not
have hair brushes so make it nice and
black combed if you can and if you like
this video please give me a thumbs up I
really appreciate it and don't forget to
go and follow me on Facebook because you
can put all your suggestions on there
anything that you want to see it's
really distracting because I consider
myself in the monitor I look like a man
and I people have a lovely day I'm off
to freak out my husband and I will see
you next time bye